writing content doesn't guarantee
traffic but watching this video will
help you avoid that trap hey everyone
i'm neil patel and today i'm gonna break
down the content marketing trap why
riding content can drive zero traffic
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
just writing content isn't enough you
need to focus on keywords that are
popular and go super in depth and more
importantly you need to focus on content
clusters or topic clusters and not just
keywords so for example if you wanted to
rank for seo like i do i don't just
write on seo and have one article around
it i'll write on seo page speed i will
talk about link building on page seo
google search console even if some of
those keywords don't get as much traffic
you need to cover that whole topic and
be super thorough nowadays to google
short content and underdevelop shallow
content isn't that great and you'll find
that those pieces of content don't rank
well hence high quality long form
content wins over thin content hands out
now this doesn't mean that you need to
write 3 000 word articles at minimum or
5 000. if someone's looking at a topic
like how to tie a tie do you really
think they want to read 3 000 words no
they just want some animated gif or some
video that shows how to tie a tie and
that's it
but you could have
videos and animated gifs and even some
small amounts of text on how to tie a
tie how to tie a windsor knot how to tie
a
double wins or not i don't even know if
that exists but you get the point you
would want to break down every way to
tie a tie um to even breaking down how
to tie a skinny tie how to tie a thick
tie because by being super thorough and
covering every version of that topic
you're more likely to rank better
so how do you find these clusters and
keywords that you can use
well
what i want you to do is first
go to ubersuggest and type in your
competitor's url
in the left-hand navigation
you'll see an option that's called top
pages
this will show you the top pages for
your competitors and that'll give you
some ideas of topics that they're
ranking for
on that page uber says will break down
the keywords that drive all those
visitors so now you got your topic and
the keywords that drive those visitors
and you'll also see the backlinks and
the people linking to that page that'll
give you a start now if that page on
your competitor site is really popular
but the intent of those keywords and the
content doesn't match with the product
or service that you're selling don't
copy it don't try to one-up them and
create a better version of it make sure
you focus
the next strategy is to use a keyword
ideas report within ubersuggest so
you're already on uber says type in a
keyword related to your industry so for
me it may be digital marketing and then
on the left hand navigation i'll click
on keyword ideas and when i'm on this
page i will look and click for keywords
i can rank for it's a button if you
don't see it you need a login what uber
says will do is break down all the
likely list of keywords that you could
potentially rank for based on your site
and how google views your site so that
way you're not wasting your time trying
to rank for all these keywords that you
have a slim chance for now in the long
run as you build up your authority and
you get more popular
you'll see that this report will change
and you'll see more and more keywords
but first start off with the keywords
within that report that are a
potentially good fit for your business
in which the intent matches up with the
products and services you're selling for
but you can also end up ranking for in
essence they need to be really relevant
for your business and i can't emphasize
that enough because what a lot of people
make the mistake for is just going after
keywords that can drive a lot of traffic
versus driving relevant traffic just
because you get a hundred thousand
visitors from a keyword but zero sales
did you do a good job
not really you need a focus on
conversions and i recommend that you set
up goal tracking and conversion tracking
within google analytics so then that way
you'll know what keywords and topics are
doing the best for you so you can create
more content around those topics so then
you're not wasting your efforts and
money on keywords that are irrelevant
for your business
no matter what you do with your content
if you end up creating amazing content
and no one reads it or sees it it
doesn't matter even if you're using all
the right strategies
so
what i want you to do in uber says is
look at the backlinks opportunity report
so if i create an article on seo and i
google that term
i know on page one their search engine
landed moz and a few other sites i would
put in those urls into the backlinks
opportunity report and then i would put
in my article url into the backlinks
opportunity report
and you want to use the exact url filter
in the backlinks opportunity report
because when you do this it'll show you
who's linking to your competitors page
that's very similar to yours but not
yours because if someone links to two
three four of your competitors and they
don't link to you chances are they're
willing to link to you as well but on
the flip side links as you know is a big
factor in google's album if you start
reaching out to people who don't link to
any of your competitors and you ask them
to link to you because you want more
links
you're probably not going to get those
links and you're going to have to send
out tons of emails and try to convince a
lot of people and very few people are
going to link back out to you
the other thing that you need to do is
make sure that your site is buttoned up
no matter how good your content is and
if you build links
but your site isn't buttoned up in which
there's a lot of errors and google can't
crawl your site or there's issues with
your site you're not going to rank well
so on the left side of uber says there's
a site audit report it breaks down all
the seo errors that your site may have
what i want you to do is go into the
errors and look at them all the critical
ones or the suggested ones
and look at them from top to bottom the
ones at the top typically will have the
biggest impact on your rankings and
traffic and those are the ones you
should do first and work your way until
you finish the last one on the list
and then as you fix them make sure you
click the recrawl button within
ubersuggest on that site audit report
and it'll double check to make sure you
fixed it right so then that way you know
everything's blend up
now if you need help with your seo check
out my ad agency np digital if you have
any questions leave a comment below i'm
here to help if you enjoyed this video
like it share it tell the people about
it thank you for watching